all right mate yeah you good think he's
good
[Music]
when you think of urban environments you
think of huge areas filled with vibrant
colors thousands of people and of course
the sights and sounds well it doesn't
get much more vibrant than right here we
have traveled to a city that regularly
makes the top ten most densely populated
areas in the world but we're not here
just to experience the city life we also
want to find some of the fantastic
wildlife species that call this concrete
jungle home
[Music]
I'm Hannah Stateville and welcome to
Hong Kong
Hong Kong city is surrounded by waves of
green wilderness with much of the land
around 75% still being wild so it's no
surprise that as the city expands the
wildlife seems to be moving in but is
this urban environment good for the
wildlife is the world are good for the
people and most importantly are they
coexisting well let's find out just over
7.4 million people live in Hong Kong and
that population number is only set to
rise but a total of 24 country parks
have been designated for wildlife nature
and the local people so we've come here
to kam Shang country Park located to the
northwest of the city a beautiful area
that spans just over three kilometers
squared but it's home to the largest
wild macaque population in Hong Kong
macaques are known to be hugely
adaptable to urban environments around
the world being opportunistic omnivores
they eat a variety of foods anything
from fruits and seeds to bark and
insects so there are around 2,000 wild
macaques here in Hong Kong and this area
is home to around 16 to 1800 of them but
the species we see here is actually a
hybrid between the long tail and the
rhesus macaque there were introduced
here in the nineteen hundreds and their
populations have food and that's because
the amount of food that is available to
them and humans eating them 30 social
troops are found across the city and due
to the abundance of resources some are
getting bigger and bigger
so you come up here right beside of this
massive busy motorway and the largest
troop of macaques here in Hong Kong is
around 250 individuals and the think
we'd just about to run into them cuz we
are surrounded so we've come up by the
side of this really busy motorway and
behind me is a mother with her baby and
she
proving it she's coming in sand macaques
will latch on to their mothers underside
and for the first few weeks they feed
exclusively on her milk before starting
to try solid food then as they get older
they begin to travel up top hitching a
ride with not just their mothers but
also other closely related females in
the group
[Music]
it's really strange because they are a
wild animal but being this close to them
they seem so human and their expressions
you can see them in their faces
with strong social hierarchies in close
knit bonds their behaviors aren't that
dissimilar to our own sibling squabbles
being a regular occurrence and social
grooming used to make amends being one
of our closest relatives they are highly
intelligent but living so close to
humans has its downfalls as leftover
waste appears all too tempting making
the impact of this crossover of habitats
all so clear to see
yet Hong Kong hasn't just provided areas
on land for its wildlife it's also set
aside marine parks for its underwater
creatures so we've just left kam shell
and we're now headed to lantau island to
hopefully see one of the rarest species
in Hong Kong there's only around 47 of
them left so because of course we get
lucky today
now this species is found in and around
whole cold waters particularly at the
mouth of the Pearl River estuary but now
it's a highly fragmented population a
beautiful animal and extremely rare to
see and it is the Chinese white dolphin
also known as the Hong Kong pink dolphin
to help us in our search we contacted
Thea Bradford a marine biologist who
works closely with Hong Kong Dolphin
watch Thea goes out on a weekly basis
taking groups of people to look for the
dolphins and we wants to find out
exactly what makes them so special
Sathya tell us about the wonderful big
dolphins at Hong Kong and why exactly
are they pink so they've been affected
by the dark waters coming from the Pearl
River Delta it's meant that the dolphins
haven't been able to get much sunlight
on their skin so they have lost the dark
coloring that you see in other oceanic
dolphins which means that now they're
completely white but the reason that
they look pink in Hong Kong is because
Hong Kong has very very warm waters
because of the ocean currents nearby so
they bring their blood vessels close to
the top of their skin and so they look
pink and that's why they're pink because
of their blood vessels of the skin yes
it's all because of their
thermoregulation as we headed out
further around the island the realities
of trying to find such a dwindling
population quickly becomes apparent with
around 158 in 2003 - now just 47 which
is roughly a 70 percent decline
[Music]
and after a good few hours out at sea
our hope of finding them runs out so
unfortunately we haven't seen the pink
dolphins today why do you why do you
think that is so unfortunately we
probably didn't see them because there
just aren't enough around in Hong Kong
anymore sometimes you just get unlucky
and you don't see them on a trip with an
increase in habitat loss noise pollution
and discarded waste in the surrounding
waters these are just some of the
factors that are contributing to their
decline so as you can see this is recent
footage of them here so they are here
but today we've just been really really
unlucky and it's because the population
is so low and it's a real shame I'm
absolutely gutted despite not finding
any of them today after --there had
shown us some recent footage it made us
feel a little better and we wanted to
find out what is being done to try and
protect the dolphins in their natural
environment so that the hong kong
government has got a wonderful
monitoring program that they do
throughout the entire year
and we also have some marine park built
just for the dolphins the dolphins don't
have a full recovery plan in place as
more of a monitoring aspect at the
moment but that is what they need to
make a full recovery as a proper
recovery plan as our time draws to an
end it's clear the efforts have been and
are still being made to provide species
with areas they can call their own and
in the case of the pink dolphins
hopefully we'll have better luck next
time
Hong Kong is truly a beautiful city with
so much to offer and the sheer amount of
green space that's been created here is
remarkable and seemingly some species
are thriving but then others are not
both because of man's effects on the
surrounding habitat but thanks to
stringent efforts from conservation
groups they could still be hope for the
Hong Kong pink dolphin and that is what
we must focus on not just here but in
all about now
very wild urban cities
[Music]
so I do hope you've enjoyed your time
with this here and do subscribe to earth
unplugged for more fascinating wildlife
videos from around the world but for now
from us here in Hong Kong we'll see you
later